[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
I'm Reece Jones, and welcome
to module 6, Planning
for Lucidity.
Now that you have a better idea
of how to induce a lucid dream,
it's time to create a
blueprint for your next one.
Without a specific
plan in place,
lucid dreams are often short
lived and directionless.
So planning a general
framework for your next one
will help you
sidestep this pitfall.
But how to do it.
Well, the way you
approach this is
going to depend on the
sort of person you are
and what exactly you're looking
to get out of lucid dreaming.
For example, you
might just be looking
to have some fun with
it, in which case,
maybe you want to explore
a futuristic theme park
or tour the mansions
of the Hollywood Hills.
Or perhaps you're here for more
serious psychological work,
in which case, a
lucid dream meditation
could be perfect for you or
exploring a traumatic memory
from your distant past.
With lucid dreaming, all of
this and much more is possible.
Regardless of what
you end up choosing
as your next lucid
dream adventure,
the key takeaway
here is this, don't
make these important plans
inside the lucid dream itself.
Not only will it be a waste
of valuable dream time,
but hanging around thinking
about what you want to do next
will risk dissolving the
dream and waking you up.
In fact, in the
pressure of the moment,
you might not be able to
think of anything at all.
Being on the spot like that
tends to freeze people.
And so, an easy
solution to all of this
is simply preparing
beforehand what exactly does
preparation look like then?
Well, sit down with
a pen and paper
and literally jot down a plan.
Don't just keep it as
thoughts in your head,
you want to solidify the plan
by writing it down on paper
or typing it out,
whatever works for you.
It doesn't have to be
long, it could just
be a sentence or two.
But you want to get a
general outline in place.
An example might be
something like this.
In my next lucid
dream, I want to relive
a past traumatic
experience with my father.
I want to see it from
a fresh perspective
and glean new insights
into what it meant
and how it defined
the person I am today.
Granted this example
is quite intense
and might not be for everyone.
So your example could
be something simpler
and more lighthearted
like this, perhaps.
In my next lucid dream,
I want to go flying.
And after I fly, I want
to experiment with running
at supersonic speeds.
As you sit there writing
this, visualize it happening.
You're pulling on your
mild training here.
You're scripting what you
want the dream to look
like, you're rehearsing
it in your mind's eye.
And then at the end,
you're reminding yourself
that this will be
happening soon.
But what about if you
sit down to write a plan
and nothing comes?
Well, that's OK.
You just need to find
some inspiration.
Maybe you can go and read what
other people have been up to
in their recent lucid dreams.
Or perhaps, you could use your
own dream journal as reference.
Remember what I said in
module 2 about data extraction
being a two-tiered process.
Firstly, when you log the
dreams upon awakening.
And then again, weeks
or months down the line
when you read them back.
Well, here's an example of the
second tier of data extraction.
Read back through
your journal, find
a dream that stands out to you.
Something you like
the framework of.
And then imagine what else
could have happened in it.
Re-imagine it and write it down.
This will be your
next lucid dream.
And whilst doing this, you might
even notice some dream signs
that you hadn't noticed
the first time around.
If so, write those down too.
OK.
So now that we've got
something planned,
we're ready for our
next lucid dream.
And you better believe
it's coming soon.
But what about if you can't
remember your plan once you're
inside the dream and lose it?
Well, that's OK.
You just need to get
your memory going a bit.
So start with something easy.
Recall your name, for example.
And then once you remember
your name, remember your age.
And then your address,
and then maybe your plan.
All the while, stay on the move.
Don't just stand there
thinking about it
because the dream
might dissolve.
Instead, start walking, rubbing
your hands together as you go,
looking around,
taking in the scene,
and exercising your memory.
Before you know it, your
plan will return to you
and you'll be ready
to manifest it.
You may even notice
the vividness
of the scene increasing
the more you bring forth
your waking life memories.
The two seem to be
intrinsically linked.
If you're still struggling to
recall the plan after all this,
however, then maybe you didn't
instill the memory deeply
enough whilst in waking life.
If so, don't worry.
Back to the drawing
board and try again.
Upon awakening, make more
of a concerted effort
to embed the plan in
your prospective memory.
So for example, keep the plan
on your person in your pocket,
perhaps, on a bit of paper.
And every couple of hours, pull
it out and read through it.
Stay consistent with this.
Do it again and again and again.
Do it right before bed
too and just after waking.
Eventually, with
enough practice,
this plan will become so deeply
ingrained within your psyche
that you won't be able
to help but remember it
during your next lucid dream.
Upon returning from the
successful lucid dream where
you manifested your plan, give
yourself a pat on the back.
You did it.
It was no small
feat but you did it.
And so return to your writings
and tick it off the list.
Don't get complacent now though.
It's time to write down
your next lucid dream plan.
This time, maybe you
can even write down
a couple of different
ideas instead of just one.
Eventually, you might
have a whole list
you want to experiment with.
But take it slow at first and
work up to the bigger things.
See what works, what doesn't,
and adjust your plans
accordingly.
This is an ongoing dance between
your conscious and unconscious
mind.
So don't be surprised if you
stumble upon some curiosities
along the way.
[MUSIC PLAYING]